# A-REAL-TIME-VEHICLE-ENUMERATION-AND-CLASSIFICATION-SYSTEM


## Description:
### Abstract:
Intelligent vehicle detection and counting are becoming more important in highway management. However, due to the various sizes of vehicles, detection remains a challenge, which has a direct impact on the accuracy of vehicle counts. This paper proposes a vision-based vehicle detection and counting system to address this issue. This study publishes a new high-definition highway vehicle dataset with 328K images. In comparison to existing public datasets, the proposed dataset contains annotated tiny objects in the image, providing a complete data foundation for deep learning-based vehicle detection. The highway road surface in the image is first extracted and divided into a remote area and a proximal area by a newly proposed segmentation method in the proposed vehicle detection and counting system; the method is critical for improving vehicle detection. The above two areas are then fed into the YOLOv3 network to detect the vehicle type and location. Finally, the ORB algorithm is used to obtain vehicle trajectories, which can be used to judge the driving direction of the vehicle and determine the number of different vehicles. Several highway surveillance videos from various scenes are used to validate the proposed methods.

### Introduction:
Vehicle detection seeks to deliver data assisting with vehicle counts, vehicle speed measurement, identifying traffic accidents, forecasting traffic flow, etc. Vehicle detecting and counting have a significant influence on numerous systems that help to regulate and control traffic in urban areas. 
The fundamental goal is to detect and count moving vehicles with clear accuracy and to have the option to do such on streets, highways, in little paths, etc. OpenCV using YOLOv3 model-analysis and understanding of images and videos taken by an advanced camera has acquired more approval and been utilized in numerous fields including industry, medication, robotics, and so on. Computer vision has likewise been applied for addressing traffic and transportation problems. In the area of automotive object detection, deep convolutional networks (CNNs) have had incredible success. CNNs are adept at learning image characteristics and are capable of a variety of related tasks, including classification and bounding box regression. For instance, a video sequence of streets can be handled and analyzed to identify and count vehicles. Additional data, such as vehicle speed or traffic density, can likewise be determined with the help of computer vision. This may directly help two kinds of people. Street users and traffic organizations. If street users know the constant traffic data, they can utilize the data to pick the most ideal path for traveling and can keep away from congestion. Then again, traffic organizations can use the traffic data in their traffic control systems, bringing about better traffic to the board.

